So we are going to jump back
in with another project.
This one is going to be the project what
size devices our users browsing with.
You should be able to navigate to
it right from that sidebar there,
the data visualization first steps
collection you should see there.
And we can drop the link
in the chat as well.
So that is what we're gonna
to be working through next.
And so in this project we're going to
be looking at a different dataset.
This time, we have another
file attached to our notebook.
This one is called device analytics.
And we'll notice it as a CSV
comma separated values file.
Another really common type of file
that you might get data in, again,
if it's a small data set.
And this is some mock data about
usage to a hypothetical site that is
the kind of data one might be able to
export from an analytics platform like for
example, Google Analytics.
So this data set has some data
about visitors to a site and
which device types and screen
resolutions those visitors were using.
So let's take a look at this data set.
What we're doing is very
similar to our last Json file.
We're reading in this file that's attached
to the notebook again if you were doing
this in vanilla JavaScript you would be
parsing this in with whatever library of
choice or maybe you'd be fetching
it from elsewhere on the web.
In this case, an observable we're
loading it as a file attachment and
then parsing it as a CSV file.
Which once again is
giving us our nice little
JavaScript array of an object for
each row in the CSV data.
And if we throw all of that into another
little table to make it a bit more human
readable, we can see what we've got here.
So we have a column called device,
where we have a kind of size
category desktop, mobile or tablet.
We might have a few tablets
in there if we scroll down.
Then we have the resolution column
which shows us the resolution
that folks on this device,
this resolution we're browsing.
And then we have a column for
the number of users that we saw
with that combination of device and
resolution and the number of sessions that
those users browsed in on that device.
So, what we've got here is some data
that has the values that we want,
but doesn't necessarily have
the exact shape that we want.
So we're gonna do a little tiny
bit of lightweight data wrangling,
which as we talked about before
is a crucial first step to
setting ourselves up for
a nice visualization.
So let's take a look at
one of these objects here.
So if I'm just looking at
the first thing in this dataset,
I see I have these different properties
corresponding to those column names and
then I have string value for
each of these observations here.
So our first task is to get
this into better shape so
that we can more easily visualize it.
So we have a couple of problems her.
First of all, we have this resolution
value hear which is a string that
combines both the width and the height of
the user's screen or resolution settings.
So what would be more helpful than that,
is to also have additional
columns that separate out the width and
the height of the resolution.
So instead of one string where we
have this kind of 1920 by 1080,
we also want a column that says, width
that's 1920, and then height that's 1080.
And it would be great if those were
numeric values instead of strings,
because that way we can actually treat
them as a continuous data space.
Similarly, we notice we have strings for
these users insertions counts, and again,
these are actually numbers, so it'd be
useful to have them as numeric values.
So our task, our mission should we choose
to accept it is to do a little bit
of lightweight data wrangling using
our good old friend array dot map.
So we have this device analytics
array with our original data,
we're gonna map over it with
a function that we're gonna write.
So we're gonna replace this little
identity function to make sure that we
first of all add width and
height columns with numeric values
corresponding to the values broken
down from the resolution column.
And convert the values in the users and
sessions columns from strings to numbers.
So there are some hints about
ways that we can do those
conversions in the hints button.
But this is just basically going to be
a little thought exercise for us to get
ourselves into the habit of wrangling
our data to make our lives easier later.